Before we leave this example,
I just like to show you a trick that I sometimes use in Microsoft Excel.
In this example,
we only had five elements to place inside our rate.
Occasionally you'll need a lot more.
For example,
if you want all the U.
S.
States in an array or if you want every county in the U.
K.
For every country in the world when you're doing that,
Excel becomes very useful because you can use Excel formulas to generate your VB a code.
We've got an example in the exercises Folders Let's just meaning lies word and go back to
that.
So in the Section five folder,
it's the second example array variable formulas.
So here we're going to do then str months when we're going to use the 1 to 12 lowest in
next one highest in blocks.
12 on then all we've done is we've placed the index in Colon A.
We place the actual text values that we want in each element in column B and then here
we've got a formula which uses column and column B to generate the necessary VB code.
So we start with an open in string use an percent.
As we've seen in VB,
it's exactly the same.
You next.
So and then we tag on the entry in colon a.
Then we put the clothes in parenthesis equals and then we need quotes.
So the same rule applies in excel as in V B.
A.
If you want quotes inside quotes,
you simply double them up.
So you've got to double quotes to generate sequence that we need.
Then we've got the closing quotation to actually close that string.
Can we tag on the month name?
And then we put the closing quotations.
So we've got four of these in total double quotations inside the regular opening and
closing.
So not too difficult.
And obviously,
you just then copy that Down and Excel uses relative references to give you the necessary
code so we could copy all of this.
Use it in our next backward returns the full Monty,
your view.
Make sure I'm a bottom,
and then do our second macro our just cool it Excel formulas.
I'll begin by this paste in that in.
Then let's declare a document on the counter.
So,
having populated our ray variables,
let's create a new document And then let's look through our array and for each element
inside it will put the month heading.
And then we'll create a table using the code that we used in the last section.
So let's put the skeleton of our loop or I p equals So as always,
we need to say L bound array str months two New bound,
right Next I So let's go back to section for and just find some of this code to generate
our head IDs so this could be our month headed.
So here we want to insert the month.
And as we saw in the last example,
we want to say each and we do that by use in I in parentheses after the name about a rape,
there's gonna be a str months brackets I then that goes in his head in one.
Now we want to create a table.
So let's scrabble of this just happen across.
And finally,
let's in certain headings said,
By placing all of that code into our loop,
it's gonna execute 12 times,
but each time will have a different month as the head in that precedes the table.
Before we contest our code we've just got to make a couple of changes.
The first thing is,
perhaps you should put some comments in.
So here we insert and in para How a girl?
Yeah.
You create and formats table.
Yeah,
Inside table Heavens from one.
So that code was fine when we were only created one table.
But what we now want to do is to create 12 tables,
one for each month.
So if we left our code as it is,
each time we start balloon will still be inside the table that we created on the previous
loop.
So clearly what we need to do after we've entered our table headings is to move to the end
of the document.
We need the equivalent of press and control and the end t.
And you'll not be surprised to learn that VB A has a command that does exactly that.
Yeah,
it's obviously going to be very similar to this one.
But instead of Moon writes,
we use dot end key and then you'll see it's asking for the unit to get to the end of the
documents,
use WD story,
and then let's just insert a blank line.
So we've got this code here,
which inserts to blank lines.
We'll just copy it,
not at the bottom.
So now we should be good to go.
We've adapted the code so it could be executed repeatedly without messing up.
So let's save and test.
And there we've got each of our month headings with a table under each month headed.
So that's a look at how you work with a raise with a fixed number of elements in the next
video,
we'll move on to look at how you can use a raise to cater for an unknown number of elements
.
And these air called dynamic a race variables they used to store a series of related values
In contrast to scaler,
variables were designed to store a single value to declare an array,
use this in tax the ray name X two y As data time where X represents the lowest index and
why the upper two loops through an array.
Use this in tax for counter equals L bound array Name to you bound the rain name statements
.
Next counter